1. How to display dynamic html data in react ?----using curly braces
2. How do you send data from parent component to child component in react ?
3. How to call parent component method from child component in react ?--
In React, a child component cannot directly call a parent component's method. The parent passes a function to the child via props, and the child invokes that function.


4. How do you access the DOM element ?In React, DOM elements are typically accessed using the useRef hook. A ref is attached to a JSX element using the ref attribute,

5. How to bind array/array of objects to dropdown in react ?---using the map() method
6. Create a lazy loaded component in react ?
7. How to display data entered by the user in another textbox ?onChange
8. How to loop array/array of objects in react ?
9. How to conditionally render an element or text in react ?
10. How to change styles based on condition in react ?
11. How to show and hide data based on condition in react ?
12.Bind array/array of objects to radio button in react ?
13.Display radio button data selected by user in another textbox ?
14. How to call a method when component is rendered for the first time in react ?
15.Display keys and values of objects in a loop in react?
16. How to rerender a component on value change in react ?
17. How to call a method on every rerender of a component ?
18. How to add data into useState array in functional component in react ?
19. Create a search textbox filter ?
20.Create a counter component using useState ?
21.Create a counter component using useReducer ?
22.Change focus/enable/disable textbox in child component based on parent component button click ? ----using forwardRef
23. How to perform debouncing ?
24.Create a component to fetch data from api ?
25.Force a component to rerender with out using useState in react ?
26. How to call a method immediately after state is updated or 
after component is rerendered ?
27. How to display number of characters remaining functionality for textarea using react useRef?----
28.Given two dropdowns, select 2nd dropdown options based on value selected in one dropdown ?
(Load states based on country selected)
29.Perform type checking using prop-types ?
30.Share data between components using context api ?
31.Give an example of optimization using useMemo ?
32.Give an example of optimization using usecallbacks in react ?
33.Create an error boundary component in react ?
34. How to display dropdown value selected by user in another textbox ?
35.Create a pure component ?
36.Create a controlled and uncontrolled component in react ?
37.Create a custom hook using ?
38.Create a popup using portal ?
39.Which lifecycle hooks in class component are replaced with useEffect in functional components ? 
40.Create a pagination component ?
41. How do you safeguard your application ?





1. useMemo /react.memo/purecomponent/higherordercomponent/usecallback/errorboundary